Level 1: Knife Skills
1. Which is less dangerous, a sharp knife or a dull knife?
A sharp knife - Correct!
A dull knife - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Neither are dangerous - Sorry, you are incorrect.
None of the above - Sorry, you are incorrect.
A sharp knife is less dangerous than a dull knife, because it is easier to control.

2. What type of knife would you use to peel a fruit or vegetable?
A serrated bread knife - Sorry, you are incorrect. A serrated bread knife is a bit too large to precisely peel most fruits and vegetables.
A butter knife - Sorry, you are incorrect. A butter knife is too dull to peel most fruits and vegetables.
An eight inch chef's knife - Sorry, you are incorrect.  An eight-inch chef's knife is a bit too large to precisely peel most fruits and vegetables.
A paring knife - Correct!
A paring knife is used to peel fruits and vegetables, since it is smaller and more precise.

3. What type of knife would you use to chop a large vegetable?
A serrated bread knife - Sorry, you are incorrect. A serrated bread knife is used mainly in a sawing motion, not a chopping motion.
A butter knife - Sorry, you are incorrect. A butter knife is too dull to chop most vegetables.
An eight inch chef's knife - Correct!
A paring knife - Sorry, you are incorrect. A paring knife is most often too small to easily chop most large vegetables.
An eight inch chef's knife is used to chop large vegetables, because it is both large enough and sharp enough.

4. To ensure your safety while using a knife, you should:
Curl your fingers - Correct!
Cut towards yourself - Sorry, you are incorrect. If you cut towards yourself, and the knife slips, you will get cut! Ouch!
Straighten your fingers - Sorry, you are incorrect. If you straighten your fingers, they are closer to the knife's blade, and are more likely to get cut.
Put the knife down with the blade facing towards yourself. - Sorry, you are incorrect! If the blade of the knife is facing towards you and the knife slips, you are likely to get cut! Ouch!
By curling your fingers, you will move them away from the knife, reducing the likelihood of accidentally cutting yourself.

5. What type of knife would you use to cut most meat?
A serated knife - Correct!
A butter knife - Sorry, you are incorrect. A butter knife is not sharp enough to cut meat.
An eight inch chef's knife - Sorry, you are incorrect.
A paring knife - Sorry, you are incorrect. A paring knife is too small and light-weight to easily cut most meat.
A serated knife is used to cut meat, since its serated blade is easily able to cut through the tough parts of meat, unlike knives without serated blades.

6. Which of the following is NOT used to keep a knife's edge sharp?
A sharpening steel - Sorry, you are incorrect.
An electric knife sharpener - Sorry, you are incorrect.
A whetstone - Sorry, you are incorrect.
A mandoline - Correct!
A sharpening steel, electronic knife sharpener, and whetstone all function to sharpen or maintain the edge of a knife. A mandoline is not used to keep a knife's edge sharp, rather, it is used to uniformly slice vegetables.

7. What must you NOT do while using a sharpening steel to sharpen a knife?
Scrape each side of the knife blade against the steel - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Maintain a 45 to 50 degreee angle between the knife and steel - Correct!
Test the blade by seeing if it cuts a piece of paper - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Stay undistracted - Sorry, you are incorrect.
To use a steel to sharpen a knife, you must stay undistracted while scraping each side of the knife on the steel at a 15-20 degree angle. Then, you  must test the sharpness by seeing if the knife cuts a piece of paper.

8. Dicing refers to:
Chopping food into uniform 1/8 to 1/4 inch sized pieces - Correct!
Chopping food into uniform 1/2 inch sized pieces - Sorry, you are incorrect. Chopping food into uniform 1/2 inch sized pieces is called cubing.
Chopping food into very small but irregular pieces - Sorry, you are incorrect. Chopping food into very small but irregular pieces is called mincing.
Rolling dice - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Dicing is chopping food into uniform 1/8 to 1/4 inch sized pieces

9. Mincing refers to:
Chopping food into uniform 1/8 to 1/4 inch sized pieces - Sorry, you are incorrect. Chopping food into uniform 1/8-1/4 inch sized pieces is called dicing.
Chopping food into uniform 1/2 inch sized pieces - Sorry, you are incorrect. Chopping food into uniform 1/2 inch sized pieces is called cubing.
Chopping food into very small but irregular pieces - Correct!
Chopping food into irregular 1/8 to 1/4 inch sized pieces - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Mincing is chopping food into very small but irregular pieces. This is especially helpful for herbs and spices such as cilantro or ginger.

10. Cubing refers to:
Chopping food into uniform 1/8 to 1/4 inch sized pieces - Sorry, you are incorrect. Chopping food into uniform 1/8-1/4 inch sized pieces is called dicing.
Chopping food into uniform 1/2 inch sized pieces - Correct!
Chopping food into very small but irregular pieces - Sorry, you are incorrect. Chopping food into very small but irregular pieces is called mincing.
Chopping food into irregular 1/8 to 1/4 inch sized pieces - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Cubing is chopping food into uniform 1/2 inch sized pieces. This is often helpful when making fruit or vegetable salads.


Level 2: Using a pot
1. If you are at a higher altitude, does it take a shorter or longer time for food to boil?
Shorter - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Longer - Correct!
There is no change in time - Sorry, you are incorrect.
The water will not boil at all - Sorry, you are incorrect.
If you are at a high altitude, there is less atmospheric pressure, so water boils at a lower temperature, increasing the time it takes to boil food.

2. What is the difference between boiling and steaming?
Boiling uses less water - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Boiling uses water, while steaming does not.- Sorry, you are incorrect.
With steaming, steam is used to cook the food, while with boiling, the water itself is used. - Correct!
Water is boiled to boil a food, but not to steam a food. - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Steaming uses the steam produced from boiling water to cook food, while boiling uses the boiling water itself. Thus, more water is needed for boiling than steaming.

3. What technique is best for cooking pasta?
Steaming - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Frying- Sorry, you are incorrect.
Boiling - Correct!
Steaming or Boiling - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Boiling is used to cook pasta, because the pasta absorbs water when it is cooked, and therefore must be cooked in water.

4. What type of pot can you use when using an induction stove top?
Cast iron - Correct!
Ceramic - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Copper - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Aluminum - Sorry, you are incorrect.
An induction stove top heats up pots using an electromagnetic field. Thus, only magnetic pots, such as cast iron, will work.

5. What is the difference between an induction stove top and a coiled stove top?
A coiled stove top uses an electromagnetic field, while an induction stove top transfers heat through a burner. - Sorry, you are incorrect.
An induction stove top uses an electromagnetic field, while an coiled stove top transfers heat through a burner. - Correct!
Only magnetic pots will work on a coiled stove top, while all pots will work on an induction stove top.  - Sorry, you are incorrect.
There is no difference between the two types of stove tops - Sorry, you are incorrect.
A coiled stove top uses a coiled burner that heats up and transfers thermal energy (heat) through the burner. An indcution stove top heats a magnetic pot or pan using an electromagnetic field.

6. What might you do to make water boil at a higher temperature?
Oil the pot - Sorry, you are incorrect. Oiling the pot will only make the food oilier.
Add salt - Correct!
Put the food in before the water starts boiling - Sorry, you are incorrect. Doing this might make the food mushy!
Turn off the fan - Sorry, you are incorrect. Turning off the fan will not change the boiling point of water.
By adding salt to the water, the boiling point increases. This is especially helpful if you want to cook food faster!

7. What should happen before you place food into a pot to boil or steam it?
The water should be at 100 degrees Fahrenheit - Sorry, you are incorrect. The water should be at 100 degrees Celcius.
The water should be boiling - Sorry, you are incorrect.
The food should be washed - Sorry, you are incorrect.
The food should be washed and the water should be boiling - Correct!
Before placing food into a pot to boil or steam it, you must make sure that the food is washed and that the water is boiling! Otherwise you may end up with dirty or mushy food!



Level 3: Using a pan
1. What type of pan would you use to braise a vegetable?
A skillet - Sorry, you are incorrect.
A saute pan - Correct!
A pan without a lid - Sorry, you are incorrect.
A small pan - Sorry, you are incorrect.
A saute pan is used because it has a lid, unlike the rest of the choices. When braising a vegetable, one first fries the food, then simmers it in a closed container with a bit of water.

2. Why do you should you spread oil on the pan before sauteing?
To make the food taste better - Sorry, you are incorrect.
To protect the pan - Sorry, you are incorrect.
To help the food cook  - Sorry, you are incorrect.
So that the food does not stick to the pan - Correct!
The primary purpose of spreading oil on the pan is to provide a slippery coating on the pan so that the food does not stick to the pan and burn.

3. To saute, you:
Immerse the food in oil - Sorry, you are incorrect. Immersing the food in oil is a part of frying.
Place the food in boiling water - Sorry, you are incorrect. Placing the food in boiling water is a part of boiling.
Use steam to cook the food - Sorry, you are incorrect. Using steam to cook food is a part of steaming.
Continuously stir the food until it is done - Correct!
When you saute, you slice the food into small uniform pieces, which you then stir in a pan coated with a small amount of oil.

4. Frying is different from sauteing in that you:
Immerse the food in oil - Correct!
Place the food in boiling water - Sorry, you are incorrect. Placing the food in boiling water is a part of boiling.
Use steam to cook the food - Sorry, you are incorrect. Using steam to cook food is a part of steaming.
Continuously stir the food until it is done - Sorry, you are incorrect. This is sauteing.
When you fry, you soak the food in oil, therefore using much more oil than when sauteing. This is why sauteing is healthier than frying.

5. Once the food is done cooking, you should:
Turn off the burner - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Take the food out of the pan - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Take the pan off the stove - Sorry, you are incorrect.
All of the above - Correct!
After you are done cooking, you should turn off the burner, take the food out of the pan, and take the pan off of the stove.

6. How should you cut a food that you plan to saute?
In large pieces - Sorry, you are incorrect. It is harder to cook large pieces by sauteing.
In small pieces - Sorry, you are incorrect.
In uniform pieces - Sorry, you are incorrect.
In small uniform pieces - Correct!
When preparing a food to saute, you should cut food into small uniform pieces so that they cook quickly and evenly.

7. With what should you wash a non stick pan?
With a soft sponge - Correct!
With an abrasive sponge - Sorry, you are incorrect.
With an all purpose brush - Sorry, you are incorrect.
With a spatula - Sorry, you are incorrect.
To wash a non stick pan, you should use a soft sponge, because anything else will scratch the non stick surface.


Level 4: Using the oven
1. What is the first step to take when using an oven?
Heating up the oven - Correct!
Putting food into the oven - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Opening the oven door - Sorry, you are incorrect.
None of the above - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Before you open the oven door to put the food into the oven, it is helpful to preheat the oven first so that the food takes less time to cook

2. What must you use to ensure your safety while using an oven?
Tongs - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Oven mitts - Sorry, you are incorrect.
An oven-safe container - Sorry, you are incorrect.
All of the above - Correct!
It is important to use tongs, oven mitts, and an oven-safe container. Tongs and oven mitts prevent your hands from burning, and the use of an oven safe container prevents anything from melting in the oven.

3. Can you put a pan in an oven?
Yes - Sorry, you are incorrect.
No - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Only if the pan is mostly made of metal - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Only if the pan is made of only heat resistant materials - Correct!
You can put a pan in an oven only if it is made of heat resistant materials. Otherwise, parts of the pan may melt.

4. What will happen if you put a plastic container in an oven?
The plastic will melt - Correct!
The plastic will heat up, but not melt - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Nothing - Sorry, you are incorrect.
The plastic will instantly vaporize - Sorry, you are incorrect.
If you put a plastic container in an oven, it will melt! So don't do that!

5. What is baking?
Cooking at a low heat in the oven - Correct!
Cooking at above 450 degrees fahrenheit in the oven - Sorry, you are incorrect. This is roasting.
Using the oven to crisp the outside of food - Sorry, you are incorrect. This is roasting
Using direct heat to quickly cook foods in the oven - Sorry, you are incorrect. This is broiling.

6. What is roasting?
Cooking at a low heat in the oven - Sorry, you are incorrect. This refers to baking.
Cooking at above 450 degrees fahrenheit to crisp the outside of food in the oven - Correct!
Using direct heat to quickly cook foods in the oven - Sorry, you are incorrect. This is broiling.
None of the above. - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Roasting is cooking at a high temperature in the oven to crisp the outside of foods.

7. What is broiling?
Cooking at a low heat in the oven - Sorry, you are incorrect.
Cooking at above 450 degrees fahrenheit in the oven - Sorry, you are incorrect. This is roasting.
Using the oven to crisp the outside of food - Sorry, you are incorrect. This is roasting
Using direct heat to quickly cook foods in the oven - Correct!
Broiling is putting a thin piece of food directly under the heating element. This only works will with thin slices of food.
